so this time I'll be talking about
unsupervised in semi-supervised learning
of structure so just I think everybody
knows this but to cover it anyway most
of the models that we've handled so far
are using some sort of supervised
learning so supervised learning were
given we want to model the probability
of Y given X and a training time we're
given both of these and sometimes we're
interested in unsupervised learning so
we want to model the probability of Y
given X but in training time we're given
only X so that means we kind of have to
guess why without having any annotations
of Y and then send me supervised
learning we model this P of Y given X in
the training time we're given both we're
either given both or we're given only X
um so I'm going to talk about the latter
two of those today mostly unsupervised
learning because what most unsupervised
learning methods can be easily applied
to supervised semi-supervised learning
um but first before I do so I'd like to
make a distinction so um learning
features versus learning discrete
structure so up until now we've talked
quite a bit about learning features like
word or sentence embedding so this is
like turning a sentence into a vector
and in this case in this case we're not
we're doing unsupervised learning like
we're Tyvek is unsupervised we don't
have any annotations of the vectors that
we're learning but we actually don't
really care about the vectors either
like we don't really we might look at
kind of dimension reduced versions of
the vectors but the reason why we want
the vectors is because they're useful
for some for something some other task a
learning discrete structure on the other
hand we have
English sentence and we want to learn
some sort of structure over this English
sentence and the reason why we might
want to learn structure over the English
sentences they actually look at this
structure and actually analyze it or or
something like that it might also be
useful or so why discrete structure the
first one is we may want to we may want
to model model information flow
differently so let's say we are using a
tree structured neural network the tree
structured neural network models the
information flow through our sentences
based on the structure so we might want
to do something like that and the second
thing is that they're more interpretive
pool you can look at this tree and see
whether this tree tells you something
about like the phrase structure of the
sentence etc um so I've talked about a
lot of different varieties of
unsupervised feature learning up until
now so when when we did unsupervised
learning of embeddings or features for a
particular sentence we have an objective
in use intermediate states of this
objective that lead that occur from us
calculating the objectives so we have
things like SIBO where we have a
continuous bag of words and then we use
the word embeddings we also have the
skipped gram objectives we had sentence
level auto-encoder type things
so sentence level autoencoders would you
know turn the sentence into a vector and
then try to read sentence we also had
something like skip thought vectors
where basically we take in the sentence
and then we try to predict the
surrounding sentences I mean we have
things like variational autoencoders
where we randomly selected a sentence
but we could also select it according to
the infrareds model so everybody I
imagine remembers all of these but the
important thing here is all of these are
learning like a continuous vector
representation as opposed to learning
any sort of discrete structure
so how did we use these we could use
them to solve tasks directly by by doing
this kind of Kings to King and Queen
Queens thing and by proxy we can do
knowledgebase completion etc which can
be solved in a couple classes but one of
the kind of interesting things here is
in a way these methods by McLovin all
are a really simple version of inducing
discrete structure from this word
embedding space they're inducing links
between words so you can think of this
as your first inducing your features
then you're doing a super simple
heuristic version of inducing the
structure between the words and that's
telling you things like man man and
woman are related uncle and aunt are
related another thing that I think a lot
of people have done on the assignment or
research or whatever is to use these to
initialize downstream models um so what
are the kinds of discrete structure that
we can induce we can do things like
clustering words together that's not
super interesting another thing we can
do is we can cluster words in context
this is more interesting so this could
be the basic idea of this would be like
part of speech tagging for example or if
you wanted to do named entity
recognition you could also do it this
way or we can learn structure like parse
trees and I'm going to talk about all of
these it's a little bit of a strange or
a title that might be easily
misinterpreted
when I say objective here I mean
objective in the machine learning sense
so what is our what is our loss function
what is the thing that we optimize here
and almost always it's some sort of kind
of generative model of the data X so if
we induce good structures we will be
able to
generate the data X with high
probability if we induce bad structures
we won't be able to generate the data X
so where it's an idea very similar to
the idea behind the variational
auto-encoders which is if we find a good
latent representation we'll be able to
generate the X easily except in this
case our latent representation is a
discrete structure instead of a
continuous there's a bunch there's a
couple different ways to do this the
kind of traditional way of doing this is
we we factorize our problem into py
which is where py is kind of our our
model of the discrete structures that we
want to induce and then P of X given Y
is our our model of actually producing
those the data another way this is
sometimes factorized is P of P of Y
given X multiplied by P of X given Y and
this is kind of like our auto encoder
our auto encoder type objective to make
this kind of mathematically correct and
into a nice generative model we can use
the variational auto encoder which is
instead of coming up with P of Y given X
since then we get we get Q of Q of Y
given X in which case this basically
according to the equations turns into
the one above and turns into a nice okay
so that's kind of the background and
then I'll give a bunch of concrete
examples of each of these are there any
questions about this
so um the one of the interesting things
was this kind of unsupervised induction
of structure was actually quite popular
up until 2014 and everybody knows what
happened in 2014 suddenly neural
networks took over and then for two or
three years everybody was doing
supervised learning because supervised
learning is easy to do with neural
networks and there were so many kind of
like low-hanging fruit type things that
you can use to you can use neural
networks to improve your accuracy on but
there's a very rich literature in
unsupervised in semi-supervised learning
for kind of non neural methods and I
have a interesting reading material not
required reading material for for this
class so we didn't I didn't ask you to
do it for the quiz but if you look at
the website noah smith's linguistic
structure prediction i think is the name
of the book and chapter four is all
about the unsupervised methods before
that i won't cover these methods i'm
only going to cover methods that use
neural networks here but you can take a
look at that if you want to know a whole
bunch of other things that people have
used on supervised learning um so
they're being said that i'm going to i'm
going to talk about neural network based
methods so clustering words in context
as i said the kind of prototypical
example of this is part of speech
induction so given a particular word
what do we think it's part of speeches
so a first attempt that we can do to
cluster words is to cluster words out of
context and just cluster them all
together so each word falls into a
single into a single cluster and this is
as simple is training word embeddings
and then performing k-means clustering
on top of them this is so simple that i
think nobody has ever written a paper
about it I tried to find one I tried to
find one but I wasn't
to find a paper that did this seriously
maybe somebody else knows one but but
this is implemented in word to Veck even
though they never wrote a paper about
this in words avec and we're diffic has
this class's option where if you do
classes 20 it will group your your word
vectors into 20 classes so so yeah so
the reason why this is less interesting
is clustering words together may be good
it was really effective before we
started using neural networks but now
that we have neural networks neural
networks can take in distributed
representations where each vector kind
of gives you a different aspect of the
word so it's really not as necessary to
cluster things together anymore just to
raise the accuracy of your neural
network so you will probably get more
you'll probably get more benefit if you
if you do it in a kind of contextual way
you'll probably get a more benefit if
you do it for the purpose of for the
purpose of essentially analyzing your
data and coming up with clusters so one
good example of that is part of speech
tags you might want to know which words
tend to be which part of speech and kind
of cluster patterns together or
something like that so the the way we do
this which I think most people who took
neural algorithms for NLP probably I
think you covered a hmm based part of
speech tagger there it's basically you
can create a factored model of P of X
given Y and py where py is basically a
state to state transition probability
over all of the over all of the part of
speech tags and when you have too late
the probability of the next part of
speech dead you use the previous part of
speech
so it's an order one order one Markov
then you also have your emission
probabilities which is oh whoops there's
a typo there
that should be this the second two
emission probability should be NN not JJ
um so unsupervised hidden Markov models
basically what you do is instead of
taking named classes what you can do is
you can just say give me 20 20 states 30
states and I want you to automatically
find like allocate each of these words
to a state in order to maximize this
probability and it's exactly the same
you can parameterize these by by
categorical distributions where you
basically count the number of times 17
is generated language and divide by the
number of times you've seen 17 and in
calculate this probability and these can
be trained using the forward backward
overlay so we talked about CRS before
CRFs use something called the forward
backward algorithm to calculate the
probability of seeing each each feature
you do exactly the same thing with with
hmm
in fact these were developed for ATMs in
the first place so this is this is
algorithm is frienldy no neural
components whatsoever but interestingly
you can convert this into something that
maybe maybe it's not exactly a neural
network but at least uses word
embeddings that we learned using a
neural network and the idea is instead
of parameterizing
each state with a categorical
distribution we can use a Gaussian or a
Gaussian mixture for each state so in
other words each state has its own mean
vector and covariance matrix and we can
calculate Gaussian probability
based on this and each time we emit a
particular word from the state we
calculate the probability density
function or we calculate the probability
density for our word embedding and we
use that as our probability of emitting
points and the funny thing is this was
for extremely long time the de facto
standard for speech I think maybe twenty
or twenty or thirty years I don't know
one like htk came out but I think it was
twenty years at least but really nobody
had applied this to text because text we
don't have continuous variables in text
so the paper here by when the dole
simply took the thing that people use in
speech forever and and ran it over part
of speech induction and they they got
relatively good results for this so it's
a super simple application of existing
technology but now that we have words in
continuous space this is this is
something that we can do in any
questions okay um so this is a paper
from one year after that by Tron at all
and they took this a little bit farther
so basically the idea here is that
instead of instead of having fixed word
embeddings that you just treat as yeah
instead of having embeddings that you
just treat is fixed and run your normal
Markov model over it we actually do want
to learn the embeddings too in a way
that Allah helps us to optimize our
probability in admissions and stuff like
that so
this the idea here is basically we take
the emission and trans transition
probabilities and we calculate these
with the neural networks so the
probabilities themselves are calculated
with a neural network but then after you
calculate the probabilities with the
neural network you use the normal
forward backward algorithm to basically
calculate your potential functions and
then update the neural networks
parameters so in a way this is very very
similar to the neural CRF that we talked
about before
so the way they calculate their
potential functions is basically we take
in a embedding for the tags and then we
run this through a non-linearity and
then we calculate the probabilities of
all the tags and then we take the dot
product of the tags with the word
embeddings and the word embeddings can
be calculated according to something
like a character CN n so just to give a
little bit of intuition why this is a
good idea um what we're doing is for
each word for each tag we have an
embedding for each word we have an
embedding and then we're taking the dot
product of them so tagging betting's for
similar tags like verb for example verb
present tense verb past tense verb for
present progressive tense or something
like that
may all have a few like a few parts that
are similar in a few parts that are
different then the word admitting this
don't consider the spelling of the words
so this could do stuff like detect
whether the the end of the word is ing
or something else like that and
because you can detect the word the end
of the word is ing then you have a
pretty good idea that it's gonna be a
verb or something so by doing this you
can basically generalize over your words
a little bit better than you could
before and actually a tailor Berger
Patrick here had a very nice paper that
did this before neural networks came out
and they cited it so you can go back and
look at that as well but there you ate
the hand hand engineer a whole bunch of
spelling features etc and this is
basically leaving everything to ago
remember the second thing I'm actually
not entirely sure about this but
basically the idea is you calculate your
transition matrix based on in on an LST
M over the words that you've already
generated I'm actually not sure if this
is it so correct or not because it
essentially breaks the Markov assumption
that you that you have in your hidden
Markov model so it just becomes like a
hidden level but they did this and it
seems to work so the idea is basically
you can omit this transition matrix for
every time step and and then use this
instead and then run the forward
backward any questions about that yes
they didn't do a backward alice tiem
because then it wouldn't be a generative
model yeah okay so there's also a kind
of a kind of neat paper on this is
called Sierra auto-encoders and it
actually doesn't really have any neural
components in the paper itself despite
the name auto-encoder
but it's essentially trivial to apply a
neural network to this model so I
thought I'd introduce it anyway um so
basically this is like like the hmm
approach that I explained before but
it's more principled and flexible
the idea is basically that you predict
potential functions for the tags and
then kind of do dynamic programming over
the tags but then you use the tags to
generate the you use the tags to
regenerate the output so the idea here
is we have an encoder part and we have a
decoder part where the encoder part is
basically it's you can look at the whole
input and you can calculate the
potential for each tag then you have
connections and then from these heads
you generate the words you generate the
words so this is it's basically a CRF
and the CRF is trained so that from the
tags you can generate the words but like
a regular auto encoder like the idea of
the original auto encoder is you're
taking this big sentence you're
compressing it into this little tiny
vector that can't have as much
information as the original sentence and
then your friend will regenerate the
sentence so you need to compress very
well in order for it to be successful
the same idea applies here here you're
taking a whole sentence with lots of
rich information and compressing it into
a tank sequence that loses a lot of the
information and then you need to
regenerate the sentence there so in a
way it's very similar it's an auto
encoder big thing very similar so these
are all very very beautiful methods I
thought I should just give one very
quick mention of that people were
thinking about similar things as early
as 1992 what they did here was
significantly less elegant but probably
would work pretty well which is you
first train in RNN according to a
standard loss function like language
modeling or whatever else and then you
cluster the hidden states according to
k-means
so this is like what's implemented in
word Tyvek the only difference is that
word Tyvek only calculates a single
vector for a word but this calculates a
vector in context for the word so each
this the hidden state will be different
for each word just because it's also
looking at the other words in the
sentence oh yeah in sorry I forgot one
thing which is you can actually draw
kind of like a finite state acceptor
that that then steps through these state
transitions that you get this way which
you can do with the other methods any
questions about any of these I think
these are good if you want to like
uncover interpretable dynamics of
something like a conversation or a
document or whatever so these would be
good so you can look at the you can look
at the clustering results by you know
just sentence by sentence um if you
remember maybe in the second or third
class on word embeddings that i did here
i showed a keyword in context graph
where basically you you take a
particular word and you look at all the
surrounding
things there you could do that for a tag
and kind of see what contexts that tag
appears and you know then hopefully
interpret it there's a similar problem
in interpreting topic models so if you
know if you know anything about topic
models basically topic models also
induce a distribution over over words so
you could probably also wist up the the
top words that tend to be generated by
that state and see see what they are if
you have a good answer you can then you
can tell me later anything else okay um
so now I'll talk about things that are
maybe a little bit more interesting
which is unsupervised phrase structured
composition functions I
so unfortunately I've been planning on
talking about this all class but then
Sam Bowman talked about this very well
during our colloquium so some of it
might be semi repetitive but I'll
explain it in my own way so so hopefully
it will be a little bit different and
they have a few things that he didn't
talk about here um but basically we have
soft versus hard tree structure um so a
soft tree structure is using some sort
of differentiable gating function that
induces something that looks like a tree
where the gating function is in kind of
a tree structure then hard tree
structure is non differentiable probably
the main advantage of the first one I
forgot to write the advantage of the
first one the advantage of the first one
is like everything else in neural
networks for NLP if we don't have to
make discrete decisions we don't want to
make this free decisions because it will
make our training harder so having a
gating function will allow us to train
our model using back propagation without
making discrete decisions on the other
hand sometimes you really do need to
make discrete decisions to model the
thing that you want to model I mean
something one example of that would be
you might want a more complicated
composition function that that you just
can't
we do if you're modeling discrete
decisions so hard tree structure looks
like this it's the tree you're used to
seeing in soft tree structure basically
looks something like this
where you could say this is a right
branching tree with a probability of 0.8
[Music]
okay another thing that I should talk
about is and unsupervised
semi-supervised and supervised
unsupervised semi-supervised learning um
one other name that you'll probably hear
frequently and probably have heard
already and for many people is weak
supervision it's a little bit it's a
little bit confusing with all the
terminology but basically sir supervised
given we're given it x and y to model P
of Y given X unsupervised we're given X
to model this and weekly supervised
we're given X and V to model P of Y
given X under the supervision that Y and
V share some sort of information so this
is a one example of this that also in a
second is we're given text and we're
given a label about sentiment or we're
given a label about natural language
inference and then we want to induce a
tree structure we want to find a tree
structure
so in that case X would be our text V
would be our label with and then we have
a tree structure Y where we hope that
the label somehow is influenced by the
tree structure and then we're really
actually maybe on maybe machine
translation is a better is a better
example so in machine translation we
assume that there's some sort of
structure in text that influences are
reordering between words and if we get
that structure correct we'll get our
machine translation results more correct
so so in that case X would be text in
one language fee would be text in
another language and then Y would be our
Y would be our transcription um this is
different from multitask or transfer
learning because we aren't given any Y
we basically Y is entirely unsupervised
but so it's different from that it's
also different from supervised learning
with latent variables because we
actually care about the intermediate
representation so in other words if
we're trying to induce tree structure
from sentiment labels we actually care
if we actually care about our tree
structure that is weekly supervised
learning if we actually care about our
sentiment labels
that's supervised learning with latent
variables so that's kind of the
distinction there there's also a name
distant supervision as far as I know
distant supervision and weak supervision
are the same thing if anybody has
written a paper about distance
supervision and wants to get angry at me
that's that's okay but I I can't I can't
tell the difference between the two so I
think they're there any objections okay
um cool so first I'll talk about a model
of a soft soft tree structure called the
gated convolution model this model was
proposed in one of the early papers on
machine translation and basically it's a
date it's a model with a gating function
where you can choose to either use the
left node or the right node or a
combination of the two nodes so this is
what the gating function looks like you
can either choose the left or the right
or the middle and you make a soft
decision between these so this induces a
tree structure
or something that kind of looks like a
tree structure the way to interpret this
graph is Obama is the president of the
United States is on the bottom and any
arrow that you see in here is where the
gating function has a probability of
over 0.1 so it's any place where the
probability of the gating function was a
reasonably high number so does this look
like a tree
no yeah it doesn't look like a tree at
all so basically this is a failure this
is a failure in terms of inducing trees
it's not a failure because it's one of
the first papers our neural machine
translation which has had a huge effect
interestingly it also talked about this
this was trained using a loss function
for machine translation obviously as I
said so they you could view this as kind
of a supervised model with latent
variables where they actually cared
about empty more than they cared about
their tweets so the next one learning
with reinforcement learning this is by
Yokohama dull quite recently um so this
is the common thread that you see and a
lot of the things I've talked about in
the past like four classes which is we
have some sort of discrete decision that
we want to make but we can't we can't
make it without breaking back prop so we
use reinforcement learning so we have an
intermediate tree structured
representation for I said language
modeling but it's actually sorry it's
for encoding sentences and then we
predict that tree using shift reduce
parsing and then the sentence
representation is composed in a tree
structure manner using a tree structured
composition function I talked I have
talked about a whole bunch of tree
structure and composition functions
including the regular recursive neural
network the tree lsdm the bi-directional
lsdm over-over children and stuff like
that and you can theoretically use any
of these I actually forget it exactly
which one thing
they'll have to go back
so yeah reinforcement learning with a
prediction loss and the specific way
they modeled they modeled this was
through a shift to reduce type style
things so they only have two actions one
action is shift one action is reduced
and based on that you'll get a different
tree structure one really clever thing
about this paper is as I repeated over
and over again reinforcement learning is
hard and reinforcement learning is
especially hard when you have a big
action space so the clever thing about
this paper is their action space is
super small it's to reduce so this is
about the the level of complexity that
you can be confident that you'll be able
to learn through reinforcement learning
things you can still learn things that
get bigger than this but but they did a
good job of reducing their their
problems with small actions so this is a
another paper that was also talked about
in Sam Bowman's talk but this is a nice
nice paper so the idea here is choosing
one parent at each layer and you reduce
the reduce the size of the layer or the
length of the sentence by one so you
start out with a layer that is not and
basically love all of these which two
look like they should be combined
together with the highest probability
which two words kind of look the best
thing like the best thing to combine
together this has a couple parallels in
the person literature this is there's a
method called easy first parsing or
basically you try to combine together
you try to get the the easiest
dependency edge to combine together for
and in a way you can kind of think this
is the neural unsupervised version of
easy first parsing where instead of
doing dependency parsing you're doing
phrase structure parsing so then you're
combining you're combining the easiest
thing together first and you get
something like the cat sat on the cat
sat on and then you continue doing this
until you have a binary tree all the way
up this was trained
instead of trained training using
reinforcement learning they trained it
using the Gumbel the Gumpel straight
through Reaper a memorization trick so
that might make it a little bit more
stable this is this may be faster and
more efficient than the than the version
by Yokohama at all and it seems to get
better results I'm not these are very
recent papers so it's kind of hard to
draw a conclusion immediately but this
seems to be a and also William said I'll
find that this gives less trivial tree
so it's binary version trees instead of
like only right branching trees fruits
any questions about those okay
so next I'll talk about learning
learning dependency structures so all of
the ones up until here you can kind of
view them as learning something like
phrase structure trees but there's also
methods on learning dependency structure
so previous methods have attempts to
kind of learn representations of fries
or the previous methods were Freight
structure and now we want to do
dependency structure and there is this
there's this method called the
dependency model with valence has
anybody heard of this before
Oh quite a few people or a few people so
this method is by Dan Klein and Chris
Manning who are now kind of very famous
people in the field of NLP and it's a
very clever model and it was very long
the baseline that you tried to beat by a
little bit when you did dependency
parsing because you couldn't beat it by
a lot because it worked really well but
the basic idea is it's a generative
model it's a language model over
dependencies where basically you
generate top-down you generate the
sentence top-down by generating the
route first and then generating its
children on either side and for both the
right and left side calculate whether to
can you continue generating words and
then if yes you generate so a an example
for the word saw is this the generative
process is like this so so you can see
it's left-sided yes I on its right side
against girl and telescope as its
children so continued condition saw left
been false where false is whether you've
generated something already or not then
you generate I you generate a stop to
see him I'm done
generating children and then
so yeah please slides are wrong again
you should all be ranked right girls so
change change all goes it's right hers
but um so then on the right side you
generates continue girl continue with
and then stuff this model is really nice
because like like the HMMs forward
backward algorithm you can do dynamic
programming and this too you know
directly calculate these probabilities
um there is a paper that basically used
neural nets to calculate the dependency
model of valence and the idea is simple
parameterize the decision with neural
nets instead of count basie
distributions in like the DMV train with
the algorithm so they have a figure in
their paper where basically it says the
normal DMV is the green dotted line here
and the neural DMV is the red line or
you also do neural network training to
basically update these parameters um so
you might notice this is exactly the
same thing as the neural hmm it's
exactly the same concept where basically
you're taking in a neural network and
you're you're calculating the parameters
of a model that used to be calculated
based on just discrete distributions so
maybe the lesson here is if you have
some neat unsupervised model that you
want to learn from the proneural era you
create a neural network to calculate its
parameters and and then question mark
question mark question mark profits and
you're gonna you get a paper out of it
so but I think it's a good first step
for a lot of these models especially
because the dynamic programming models
tend to be very stable so I this is a
paper that I'm a co-author on but I
think it's a kind of neat paper if
you're interested in like examining
models to to figure about out a little
more about linguistics but as I said
dependencies are basically trying to
induce which word is the head which word
is the head of other other words and the
idea here it's not a completely
unsupervised model it actually requires
that we have a phrase structure parts
but given a phrase structure tree um we
want to figure out which child in the
tree is the head word or which child in
the phrase is a head word and basically
the general idea of a head in
linguistics is that it's the most
important word in the phrase it's the
the word that kind of dictates the
syntax and/or semantics of the phrase so
the idea is we create a phrase
composition function that uses attention
so because we're using attention we can
basically induce weights for each of the
words in the phrase and then we can
examine if the attention weights follow
the heads defined by linguistics and we
have some examples these are probably
really hard to see but for example we
have Canadian Auto Workers Union
president this is a noun phrase where
things are spread out very kind of in a
very flat way but if we have other
things like the final hour hour it gets
most of the attention weights we have
apple compacted IBM the Apple gets most
of the attention wait so you can kind of
examine whether this matches and we have
quantitative results about whether this
matches or not we also have examples
from verb phrases the verb phrases are a
little bit more consistently the verb
but sometimes not so for example to do
something instead of focusing on the
verb which normally would be the head it
actually focuses on - which is which is
not normally
it's a way of inspecting things any
questions about okay I'll finish up with
with two other examples
neither of them were big enough to
warrant accession section on their own
um this is another paper in that follows
in the general line of like of
inspecting attention to try to get you
something interpretable so the idea is
super simple if we have an unscented
language like Chinese or Japanese or
maybe an unwritten language where we
have a transcription but we don't know
the word boundaries of the of the
transcript we might want to segment
those languages into words so a simple
idea we train a neural empty system and
then we extract words where the
attention falls on consecutive places so
this is an example from a language
called mushi to French and you can see
here that it does seem to be basically
extracting attention weights that seem
to be consistent with the with the word
segmentations here and the red boxes are
the true word segmentations for the
language and you can see it kind of over
segments but it does a reasonably good
job and this is just using a heuristic
method where if two things have the
highest attention weight next to each
other they're treated as a single word
then there's a more interesting but much
more complicated method that was
proposed at a TM NLP this year and this
is kind of using the very
traditional and correct way of doing
things it's doing segmentation with a
reconstruction boss and reinforcement
learning so it's the way that you can
kind of come up with year the idea is
that the consistent segmentation should
result in easier to reconstruct segments
and they trained the segmentation using
policy gradient so the way it looks is
you basically that encodes the codes the
words you get a single word whe in other
words EIT for what is it and and then
you encode these using a character level
or phoneme level encoder and then you
have another recurrent neural network on
top of it that takes piece as input and
then you have a reconstruction error at
the end where again you so this also
this method is also kind of nice because
it's discrete decisions are just cr1
decisions so it's the kind of thing that
you can kind of learn with learn more
easily with reinforcement learning than
than other things and the final one this
is also one of my papers this is one
venom it's pretty simple but I'm kind of
excited about this idea in general so
all the previous work that I talked
about in the in the previous like all of
the previous slides this time is trying
to induce things on a sentence by
sentence level so for a particular
sentence you might find you might find a
cluster like part of speech tags are
structure but can we learn about the
language in general so for example and
features of language are called typology
so what kind of type of language is it
one example of typology is what is the
canonical word order of the language and
we have a super simple method which is
train a neural machine translation
system on ten thousand 17 languages and
then extract extract the representations
so the method is simple getting ten
thousand 17 languages worth of data is
it's not quite as simple but we use the
Bible for this and the Bible is
translated into many many languages um
and then the idea is basically we we
have two varieties of embeddings one is
what language were using we also average
all of the hidden States for all of the
words in the language from the encoder
and then we feed this average and this
language embedding into the typology
classifier in classify and this gives us
much better results than kind of simpler
approaches while being relatively easy
um so I think this method might be kind
of interesting in itself but it also be
really interesting if we could find
other ways to kind of extract holistic
views of language as opposed to things
for particular sentences so I just view
this as kind of the start and other
people might have other ideas about how
to do this it's basically Multi multi
class multi-label classification so SPOs
OB DSO for word or typology and then
adjectives before noun or afternoon
there's just a whole
of different type of cool features that
you know we linguists have come up with
in the world atlas of linguistic
structure and a whole bunch of other
things so there are places where you can
get these the reason why this is
interesting is because those are
extremely sparsely populated even four
walls most of the languages don't have
annotations it would be more interesting
if we could find even more fine-grained
information so why not just not just oh
last function so the loss function for
training we did kind of unsupervised
training first where we where we just
trained using machine translation so
there the loss function is the log like
we go to the output for this we had a
classification loss so it's actually
it's not complicated at all you take it
off the shelf
neural empty system and run it and then
you run a classifier which is in we fix
it after empty yeah
the model yes so Google had a paper
Google and others had people where they
trained over ten languages
yes one hundred we use a hundred
textbooks it's actually not that big but
importantly it's not that important for
us to trade a good neural empty system
that's just more important to train a
feature exchangers yeah so we didn't do
it that big I think it might have even
been single single layer they all should
the same
it was always too English actually I
realized later that we might that might
not have been the best idea it would
have been better to Train it into all
directions because if you think about it
if you're going into English you might
drop some information that's not
necessary for translating into English
so apparently there were logistical
issues about getting a like always
aligned corpus
they weren't major issues so we probably
should have just done it but this is
what we did here yeah any other
questions about this or okay if not all
I'll finish up here Thanks